Chapter 9 ASPDotNET Intro (#15)
LaunchCodeEducation/csharp-web-dev-curriculum: content/ASP-NET-intro/reading/asp-dotnet-intro/index.md

## ASP.NET

**ASP.NET Core** is an extension of .NET Core and is used to build web applications. **ASP.NET Core MVC** is the framework that allows us to build web applications in a way that uses the MVC design pattern. Visual Studio has an embedded server so it is easy for us to run our applications and get started. This server picks the port number to run the app. 

{{% notice orange "Warning" "rocket" %}} 

   In this book, the port number we use is 5001. If your port number is different from any of the walkthrough materials, that will not affect the output of your project. Visual Studio uses the first available port on your computer to run your project which is why your port number may vary.  

{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice blue "Note" "rocket" %}} 

   Throughout this book, we will refer to ASP.NET Core MVC as ASP.NET or ASP.NET MVC. This is purely for the sake of brevity. When you see “ASP.NET” or “ASP.NET MVC”, we are talking about ASP.NET Core MVC.

{{% /notice %}}

## How We Teach ASP.NET

> The following section is the first of many videos we will be using to demonstrate coding an ASP.NET application. The video below provides an overview of simple application routing via the use of controllers. This video also shows the final outcome of the app we will be building over the next several videos. In subsequent videos, we ask you to code along for maximum absorption of the topics introduced. A summary of the content introduced will follow each video.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following video is the first in a series designed to help you code your first ASP.NET application. We will be building this app over the next several chapters, finishing in chapter 13. The video below provides an overview of simple application routing via the use of controllers along with a walkthrough of what the finished app will look like. In subsequent videos in this series, we ask you to code along for maximum absorption of the topics introduced. A summary of the content introduced will follow each of the subsequent videos.
```

## Intro to ASP.NET - Video

<!-- TODO: update link once video is unlisted. -->

> [VIDEO LINK in case it will not play right now - it is currently unlisted](https://youtu.be/geoobGtBJmQ)

Reviewer: Played fine on youtube.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
